Question 1
============

a
---
NOTE: ToR only has 48 ports, but there are 50 hosts. 2 hosts per rack aren't wired.

12x 96 port switches in the core.


b
---
The oversubscription is 40:48 at each ToR and 1:2 at each EoR.
If all hosts communicate with another host such that the traffic has to traverse the core switches, the bandwidth available for each must be $\frac{40}{48} \cdot \frac{1}{2} = \frac{5}{12}$ Gb/s


Question 2
============

a
---
- Higher bandwidth
- Lower latency
- Lower error rates
- Routability to hosts that aren't directly routable

b
---
RONs are fully connected graphs where each node performs active probing and other measurements in order to estimate/determine the effective latency, bandwidth, error rate, and routability to other hosts in the RON. These measurements are sent to direct neighbors such that they can determine if it would be better, according to the type of their traffic, to route traffic through a node in the RON.

c
---
Active probing of other hosts in a RON lets nodes quickly determine if another host has become unreachable. If the unreachable node is still reachable by some other node in the RON, traffic can be routed through this node. This can be done a lot faster than the distributed routing protocols do in the Internet.

Using RON one can route ones traffic based on the _type_ of traffic, which isn't done in the Internet. This lets hosts find lower latency, higher bandwidth, lower error rate, or routable paths to other nodes in the RON.


d
---
RONs don't scale very well; each node has to have a connection to every other node, meaning that the number of connections at each node increases exponentially. The measurements sent by nodes grows exponentially with the number of nodes in the RON as well.


Question 3
============

a
---
MobileIP lets nodes keep their TCP connections open, by tunneling location independent IP packets to a location dependent IP, allowing a host to keep communicating on its location independent IP.

b
---
Virtual machine migration can be a problem if the network in a datacenter if a VM moves to a different subnet, requiring it to change its IP to a subnet correct IP.

c
---
Both Portland and VL2 have many conceptual similarities to MobileIP. Especially VL2 is similar, in that it tunnels packets with a single location independent IP to a location dependent IP, avoiding breaking connection oriented transport connections (i.e. TCP.)

Question 4
============
Not applicable to 2014 course contents.

Question 5
============
A pure layer 2 network allows VMs to migrate between hosts without changing their IP. The network is almost configuration free, and new switches can be added by plug-and-play.

Because of the spanning tree protocol used in Ethernet, only a single path between hosts can be utilized at once. Broadcast messages will hit the entire network. Switches are required to hold giant switching states.

Question 6
============

~~~~~
 Host A                                                  Host B
--------                                                --------
                                                RDMA buffer registration
RDMA buffer registration
RDMA buffer advertisement  -------------->
                                                RDMA
                           <--------------      RDMA read request
                                                RDMA read response ------>

~~~~~

Question 7
============

a
---
Because of the hidden terminal problem; If nodes A and B are part of the same piconet, but can't hear each other, and the master polls A which requests to send 5 packets in a row, node B would have no way of knowing to continue on the next (in the original ordering of the frequencies.)

b
---
I'm assuming that the problem of hidden nodes is what's being referred to in the question.
Yes, 802.11 also has the problem of hidden nodes. By using RTS/CTS on top of the normal DCF protocol, nodes can almost entirely avoid the hidden node problem.

Question 8
============

a
---
- Higher latency and lower bandwidth on 3G
- 3G base stations are further away
-

b
---
Because TCP takes a long time to get up to higher transmission speeds, meaning that the total time to send the data is higher, requiring the wireless radio to be turned on for longer, consuming more power.

Question 9
============

a
---
SIP is only used to set up sessions between endpoints, and itself isn't concerned with session data. This means that the underlying transport isn't bound to any specific protocol, and in fact can be switched mid-call. SIP supports session level handovers, meaning that even endpoints can be switched mid-call. The relationship between SIP sessions and endpoints therefore is very loose.
This is different from the relationship between TCP and endpoints, which is very tight; changing endpoints during a TCP connection will break the connection.

b
---
Since SIP is supposed to allow mid-call mobility (endpoint changing IP or endpoint itself changing) it is important that the coupling between sessions and endpoints is loose.

Question 10
=============
Not applicable to 2014 class.


Question 11
=============

a
---
T_X = transmitted by X
R_X = received by X

T_S =   (+1, -1, +1, -1, +1, -1, +1, -1)
T_T =   (+1, +1, -1, -1, -1, +1, +1, -1)
T_U =   (-1, +1, +1, -1, +1, +1, -1, -1)
Noise = (+1, +1, +1, +1, +1, -1, -1, -1)

Adding all of the signals + noise gives
R_U =   (+2, +2, +2, -2, +2, 0, 0, -4)

U can then decode S's message:
    1/8 * (2 - 2 + 2 + 2 + 2 + 0 + 0 + 4) = 1/8 * 8 = 1

b
---
Assuming that no power control is done on the mobile stations, and that they all transmit with the same power, the near-far problem causes the signals of stations which are further away to be difficult (or even impossible) to detect. This can make it difficult to correctly interpret the received bits.

c
---
No, the set is not a proper OVSF code set because the first code is a subset of the second.
If we change the second code to be (-1, -1, -1, -1), the set is a proper OSVF set.
